Process - Instance of a program in execution

Operating System acts as an interface between the user and the computer hardware. It is responsible for memory management, process management, i/o operations.

The operating system manages memory by allocating and deallocating resources effeciently.

Three different states of process - ready, running and wait

The running state means that the process has all the resources it needs for execution and it has been given permission by the operating system to use the processor.

Thread - "single sequence stream with process" - single sequence stream within a process, a single sequential flow of activities being executed in a process. Thread is a subset of a process.

Thrashing - performance of a computer system failes. Occurs because of page faults.

Kernel - OS that manages the operations of computers and operating system. It uses inter process communication and system call. Core componenet of OS.

System Call - process requesting memory or CPU time to OS

Scheduling Algos -
FCFS, SJN, Priority Scheduling, Shortest Time Remaining, Round Robin, Multiple Level Queues

Banker's Algo - Resource Allocation and Deadlock avoidance algorithm

Overlays -  The process of transferring a block of program code (a process) on other data into internal memory, replacing what is already stored.

Fragmentation - Internal Fragmentation picture on gfg
To fix this we use paging

Paging - Technique used for non-contiguous memory allocation

multi threading -> multi processing -> multi programming -> multi tasking

Spooling - Putting jobs in a buffer, where a device can access them when it is ready

Interrupts - Signal emitted by hardware or software when a process or an event needs immediate attention

Interrupt Service Routines - I/O devices in one of the bus control lines are dedicated to this purpose.

Pipe - technique for interprocess communication. Output of one process is input for another process

Semaphores - are integer variables that are used to solve critical section problem by using two atomic operations - wait() and signal()

Bootstrapping is the process of loading a set of instructions when a computer is first turned on or booted.



